Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
I'm super excited because again we're getting closer to mastering four and why loops.
We're gonna be moving forward to more kind of advanced topics in the future so let's get started.
Here I am asking you to tell me what does this code generate.
So here I have basically again please don't run it.
That the objective is not Do not run it right.
We must take a four letter in hello world.
Okay.
And basically I am comparing if the letter was equals to Oh all right we're going to do.
Going to say continue.
Basically we're just going to skip this right.
Not if else.
What we're going to do going to print basically our letter.
All right.
Okay.
What do you mean by this.
So basically if we run it you will get to simply print out all the letters.
So we're gonna print basically H print e print print L and so on and you'll see that always been missing
and all he does well have been missing.
So basically we just kept printing the letter.
Oh that's all what it is.
Okay.
It's again pretty pretty simple exercise.
All right.
Question 8 I'm asking you to write a code that takes a list of temperatures from the user and convert
them from Celsius to Fahrenheit.
Okay.
All right.
Let's see how can we do that.
So going to say OK first I need to find a way to actually get data from the user.
Right.
And basically separate them by space.
That's going to be a little bit mind might be a little bit challenging.
So can we do that going to separate print when I say okay enter a list of temperatures separated by
a space day.
All right.
So the user will simply going to enter a list of a list of characters or just say this temperatures
let's say 30 40 whatever.
Right.
And what I wanted to do here which is liberty gonna be a little bit tricky.
OK so I gonna do here.
I'm gonna say OK.
When they use it insert all these numbers.
All right.
So simply I need to have kind of an input statement somewhere.
So I need to have an input statement right.
So the user can enter numbers right.
And what I'm going to do here I'm going to say OK I wanted to take this number and actually because
we have separated by space basically dot splits.
Right.
And that should split basically our our numbers into different strings.
You can have string of 30 string of 40 for example single 50 and so on.
Right.
So what I wanted to do I'm going to say OK I need to take this and actually converted into into an integer
as well.
So I'm gonna say OK for x in and every time I'm going to think Okay take the input take whatever input
things are going to get going to split it right into these like different buckets.
Right.
And every time I'm gonna turn okay our integer of X please remember that we need to actually cast it
into an integer.
Right.
And that should be returned here in our lists of temperature underscore C which is temperature C again
one more time.
And I say okay for x in input.
So basically using an insert input values and input strings right.
And every time I'm gonna go ahead I mean I think okay for X an input that split.
So I take whatever input gonna be used are gonna be inputting splintered right.
So gonna be splitting it because they are separated by space.
Right.
And then every time I'm going to take it and actually convert it in a way into an integer.
So we can have numbers then we can do the conversion afterwards.
All right let's run that.
And here I am asking okay to enter numbers are going gonna say Okay 40 30 50.
Ninety two hundred whatever.
Press enter and let's take a look at temperature see.
So temperature underscore see and that's what we've got here.
Perfect.
That's temperature C actually is a list.
Let's actually make sure let's do type temperature let's run it.
And actually a temperature.
It's a list which looks great.
Which makes sense.
And if we take a look at temperature C that's basically what we're getting here 30 50 1922 and 200.
All right.
Perfect OK.
So what we could do afterwards.
I'm going to say OK we wanted to take these numbers.
OK so every one every time and these numbers are going to take.
Get them and they're going to convert them into Fahrenheit.
All right.
So how can we do that.
We're gonna say okay four again you guys can write it in a separate for loop right here.
I'm just defining it in a list comprehension form kind of kind of thing when I say okay for i in temperature
on the score c.
Okay.
So every time going to take for i in temperature C every time I go take a 30 take 50 take 90 and so
on.
And every time I'm gonna get it and basically going to convert it into Celsius into Fahrenheit.
How can we do that conversion.
Because remember you guys can look it up as well.
I'm going to say Okay nine divided by five.
Right.
And that would be times the eye which is the number two gonna be getting in Celsius.
And you're going to say plus 32 right.
And let's cast that.
Let's put it as a list and put this in a temperature underscored Fahrenheit.
All right.
Again let's review something here for I in temperature of seats.
Every time go take the elements in the list every time.
Go ahead here take it and simply do the conversion.
Take the I multiplied by 9 0 9 over 5 and then add onto it 32.
Please make sure that the president's here makes sense.
So the present actually makes sense why because this is multiplication and then this is addition right
afterwards.
Right.
K let's run.
That looks good.
And let's take a look at temperature on the school Fahrenheit.
Let's.
Let's see it.
It looks looks men looks a little bit doesn't look you know doesn't look too bad right.
So here we have 33 became eighty nine.
Here we have 50 becomes 122.
And then one ninety four.
And then two hundred becomes three hundred ninety two.
Let's actually take a look at some you know familiar numbers.
Let's assume that you know that we know familiar numbers put zero point twenty five and so on.
All right let's do it again insert for example familiar numbers zero.
Let's put let's say 25 and let's put well familiar with let's say 35.
Right.
OK.
Looks good.
Let's run it again here.
Run it again run it again.
And that's what we're getting.
OK.
So zeros translate to 32.
That makes sense.
Twenty fives actually 77 degrees and then 35 is actually ninety five degrees OK.
All right.
And what we could do afterwards you can actually print both.
We're going to say okay let's print both.
When I say print say temperature my apologies.
Temperature in Celsius.
I will.
Let's call it degrees C and fair in heights OK.
What we could do.
Gonna say OK let's printouts let's actually do that.
And let's print our two variables temperature underscore C and let's print temperature underscore Fahrenheit.
All right looks good.
What we could do here as well we can you know put just backslash and just to make sure that we can print
that in a new line.
Actually backslash and if you remember has to be inside here.
Right.
So whatever is coming after this we're going to be printed in a new line.
That's on that that's and that's what we're getting here.
Perfect temperature.
Degrees C OK and then temperature in degrees Fahrenheit we can put it basically versus for example.
So something like that temperature degrees C versus top temperature in Fahrenheit.
All right.
Looks great.
Let's keep going.
So question number nine I'm asking you to create a password generator that takes the required password
length from the user and generate the password.
The password should be a mix of characters numbers and special characters.
All right.
So basically here just the quick review.
So it's kind of you know the extent of research they guys need to do is let's say if we put string dot
digits.
OK.
And if we're on that you will find that basically that it's generating an error so you need to basically
import.
And that's what we're going to be using.
We can import string and we wanted to import as well.
Random OK because when I use it at some point.
OK let's do this again.
And that's what we're getting here.
So if we do string dot digits you will find that basically you come up with all the combinations of
the digits right from zero tonight.
OK.
All right let's try.
If you wanted to do string OK dot and let's do ASCII letters.
Let's see how can we do this.
Okay ASCII underscore letters.
If we do that.
My apologies.
This should be string.
Let's run that.
And that's what we're getting.
It's got all the characters right.
So all the lower case characters and the uppercase characters.
OK.
Looks good.
Let's do again string dots and let's do the.
If you wanted to be it like exclamation marks and all that we're going to say OK.
Punctuation.
OK.
And let's done that.
And that's what we're getting here we're getting all in all a dollar sign you know percentage you know
like summation Mark perfect.
So now we have kind of an idea of what do we need to do.
Now we have the basics now have the foundation right.
Let's go ahead and ask the users to input and we can ask you to enter the length let's let's call enter
the required length of the password OK.
And these are going to insert a numbers game going to make it an integer.
And let's go here and let's set that to Lance right.
So that would be our length is basically our masking for a number let's say 4.
And if we take a look at the lens that would be number four looks good.
All right.
What we could do here is that basically we just want to go ahead and generate a random random numbers.
We're going to go here and basically just select you know like random random numbers out of out of all
of them right.
So we need to kind of a mix between ASCII characters between the special characters and between the
digits.
So what we could do.
We're going to say OK this is basically our list of characters.
Let's add them up let's add string the digits.
This copy that's put it here and we can concatenate just some of them up to this string that ASCII letters
and let's add these special ones as well.
All right.
OK.
Looks good.
Let's run that and let's take a look at car.
And that's basically the mix.
That's kind of our pool that we can use to generate a password.
And that's pretty much the pool that you know anyone you know any user will get to use to set their
passwords right.
So just going to select one of these combination of these obviously there's like you know like like
millions maybe billions of combinations in here.
Right.
So we could do here we're going to say OK we wanted to randomly go ahead here and select these numbers.
All right.
So can we do that that we can say OK the secret for I in range.
And we need to generate numbers from 0 2 lengths which is in the length of the password that you sort
of enter.
Right.
And every time I'm going to say OK let's define before this.
Let's define a password which is going to be kind of an empty string right.
So every time you go ahead and basically just concatenate take the previous password and concatenate
a random number.
So every time going to go here get a random number and concatenate it to the password.
Say keep password equals to password plus random.
Right.
And we can do random dot choice if wanted to select random basically characters within our car string
here.
So we have our car right here to this basically just going to go ahead and generate random one it's
maybe five and then add it to the password go back again maybe generate let's say uppercase Q And then
go back again.
And then you know do this say select the percentage sign and go back again and so on and basically going
to do that repeat it until we actually go ahead to the length of the number of the the user have entered
already.
All right.
And that's it.
It's afterwards we can actually go ahead and print our password.
All right.
I know it's a little bit confusing but let's give it a shot let's see if it actually works or not.
Let's run it digits digits.
Looks good and past passwords let's say six maybe make a simple number let's say five.
Let's go to the length.
It's five.
Looks good.
Here with credit card.
That's the mix of characters defined that initial password here we printed the password and you find
they have one two three four five basically just randomly generated numbers.
Actually if you run it again you come up with a new with a new one.
Right.
And if you guys notice that basic hit it has been concatenated on top of it.
Why.
Because the password didn't change.
So here I'm not defining a new password every time I'm running it's anything new password.
You have to run this first.
So this will going to initialize it set it to zero.
Right.
Go here will generate five values to seven hash tag and ze I.
One more time be asked you know whatever.
One more time it's actually really powerful passwords.
Really hard to guess.
All right.
You guys again can use it to develop your own kind of you know like password generator or whatever.
OK.
And that's it.
All right.
So basically here in this section we learned how can we let you two took three questions so far.
How can we learn how that could generate.
We learned how can we use continue.
Here we learned how can we feed data from the user and split it and actually converted into a list outcome
list output list from census to Fahrenheit.
And here we learned how can we generate randomly generated passwords.
And we learned how can we to use random along with the utilization of all the digits of the letters
and all the special characters within the English language.
I hope you guys enjoy the lectures and see you guys in the next lecture.